.TH FILEDROP 1 "June 2026" "1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
filedrop \- Instantly host a file on a local web server with QR code for mobile transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B filedrop
.IR <file>
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B filedrop
is a developer utility that instantly hosts a single specified file on an ephemeral local HTTP server, broadcasts it over mDNS so nearby devices can discover it by name, renders a high-contrast QR code directly in the terminal, and self-terminates the moment the file has been successfully downloaded. Zero configuration. Zero residual processes. Pure utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " \fIn\fR"
Specific port to bind (default: auto 8000-8999).
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bind " \fIip\fR"
Network interface IP to use (default: auto-detect).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " \fIs\fR"
Seconds to wait for a connection (default: 300).
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name " \fIname\fR"
Override mDNS service name.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-qr
Suppress QR code, print URL only.
.TP
.B \-\-qr\-compact
Print QR code without surrounding metadata box.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-mdns
Disable mDNS broadcasting.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output (log all decisions).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Force no-color output (also respects NO_COLOR env var).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Serve an image:
.RS
.B filedrop ./photo.jpg
.RE
Serve a file with a custom port:
.RS
.B filedrop ./report.pdf --port 9000
.RE
Serve a file with verbose output logs:
.RS
.B filedrop ./video.mp4 --verbose
.RE
Suppress QR code (e.g. for SSH sessions):
.RS
.B filedrop ./archive.tar.gz --no-qr
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (file transferred)
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments
.TP
.B 2
No network interface
.TP
.B 3
Port exhausted
.TP
.B 4
File not found/unreadable
.TP
.B 5
Transfer timeout
.TP
.B 6
Client disconnected mid-transfer
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted (SIGINT)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set, filedrop will render the QR code using plain ASCII characters and disable all ANSI color codes in output.
.SH BUGS
Windows terminal support may be degraded on older versions of cmd.exe. Ensure you use Windows Terminal for the best QR rendering experience.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBnode\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
filedrop contributors.
